README.md, before:

# BioProject

## Prerequisites
Python 3, biopython, bcbio-gff, pysam, Trinity, BUSCO, Bowtie2, Snakemake

## Installation
Installation is not necessary, it adds the ability to run the tool using the command 'GUESSmyLT' globally. Tool can be used by running the python script 'GUESSmyLT.py' from within the tool folder.

#### Installation with git:

Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/eobw/BioProject.git
```

Move to the folder and install:

```bash
cd BioProject/
python setup.py install
```

#### Check installation

Executing:
```bash
GUESSmyLT
```

or

```bash
GUESSmyLT -h
```

to display help.

## Usage

### File formats


### Supported header formats

### Example commands

#### Paired end reads and reference
```bash
GUESSmyLT --reads /home/.../read_1.fastq /home/.../read_2.fastq --organism pro --reference /home/.../ref.fa
```

#### Only paired end reads eukaryotic
```bash
GUESSmyLT --reads /home/.../read_1.fastq /home/.../read_2.fastq --organism euk
```

#### Single end reads and reference
```bash
GUESSmyLT --reads /home/.../reads.fastq --organism pro --reference /home/.../ref.fa
```

## Parameters

### Mandatory

| Parameter | Input | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| --reads | .fastq file(s) | Full path(s) to RNA-Seq read file(s). For paired end /1 first and /2 second. Order is important. If one file given single end is presumed. |
| --organism | euk or pro | Eukaryote or prokaryote (euk/pro) is an option needed for the BUSCO anotation. |



### Optional
| Parameter | Input | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| --subsample | Even integer | Number of reads that will be used for subsampling. |
| --reference | .fa file | Full paths to reference genome/transcriptome for mapping reads to. |
| --annotation | .gff file | Full path to annotation file for skipping BUSCO step. |
| --threads | Integer | Number of threads to use. |
| --memory | Number of GB ex: 10G | Maximum memory that can can be used in GB. |

## Known issues
Spaces in headers

Commit message:

Added TO DO list to readme and updated arguments and example executions.

README.md, after:

# BioProject

## Prerequisites
Python 3, biopython, bcbio-gff, pysam, Trinity, BUSCO, Bowtie2, Snakemake

## Installation
Installation is not necessary, it adds the ability to run the tool using the command 'GUESSmyLT' globally. Tool can be used by running the python script 'GUESSmyLT.py' from within the tool folder.

#### Installation with git:

Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/eobw/BioProject.git
```

Move to the folder and install:

```bash
cd BioProject/
python setup.py install
```

#### Check installation

Executing:
```bash
GUESSmyLT
```

or

```bash
GUESSmyLT -h
```

to display help.

## Usage

### File formats


### Supported header formats
Tested for Old/New Illumina headers and downloads from SRA.
Should work, but not tested for all fastq header formats at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sra/docs/submitformats/

### Supported interleaved formats
If headers are in Old/New Illumina or if reads are alternating.  
Add example..

### Example commands

#### Paired end reads and reference with specified subsampled reads
```bash
GUESSmyLT --reads /home/.../read_1.fastq /home/.../read_2.fastq --organism pro --reference /home/.../ref.fa --subsample 100000
```

#### Only paired end reads eukaryotic
```bash
GUESSmyLT --reads /home/.../read_1.fastq /home/.../read_2.fastq --organism euk
```

#### Single end reads and reference
```bash
GUESSmyLT --reads /home/.../reads.fastq --organism pro --reference /home/.../ref.fa
```

## Parameters

### Mandatory

| Parameter | Input | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| --reads | .fastq file(s) | Full path(s) to RNA-Seq read file(s). Can be compressed or uncompressed. Order is not important. Can handle two paired end read files, one interleaved read file and single end read file. |
| --organism | euk or pro | Eukaryote or prokaryote (euk/pro) is an option needed for the BUSCO annotation. |



### Optional
| Parameter | Input | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| --subsample | Even integer | Number of reads that will be used for subsampling. |
| --reference | .fa file | Full paths to reference genome/transcriptome for mapping reads to. |
| --annotation | .gff file | Full path to annotation file for skipping BUSCO step. |
| --threads | Integer | Number of threads to use. |
| --memory | Number of GB ex: 10G | Maximum memory that can be used in GB. |
| --mapped | Sorted .bam file | Full path to mapped read file for skipping Bowtie2 step. NOT DEVELOPED YET. |
| --output | File path | Full path to result file. NOT DEVELOPED YET. |

## Known issues
1) Complains about gzip broken pipe when subsampling with compressed files (but works anyway).  
2) BUSCO sometimes looses the config path. Fix manually in terminal:
```bash
export AUGUSTUS_CONFIG_PATH=~/miniconda3/pkgs/augustus-3.2.3-boost1.60_0/config
```
3) BUSCO might not find any core genes. Fix by using more reads or by providing reference.

## TO DO
1) Handling of --output  
2) Handling of --mapped  
3) Subsampling only takes top n reads in .fastq files. Can be improved by selecting reads randomly.
